Update as collaborative

Discourse is an essentially collaborative process.  In one sense, successful discourse requires that the participants accurately understand each others' contributions.  This requires constant feedback, step retracing, and repair to keep everyone on the same page.  But the importance of collaboration goes deeper than this.  Herb Clark and others (CITE XXX) have documented a variety of discourse maneuvers that indicate an individual other than the interlocutor who initiates the contribution providing essential input into its completion.  This has led Clark to suggest that discourse contribututions involve two distinct phases: the initiation and the completion.

Clark is primarily concerned with the phonological and syntactic representation of discourse contribtutions, but the same insights extend to the level of semantico-pragmatic representation as well.  A principle way in which the collaborative nature of discourse is realized is in the way that assertions update the discourse context.  Stalnaker (CITE XXX) has suggested that the principle effect of assertion is to eliminate uncertainty, which is modeled as the elimination of previously open possibilities from the context set. But Stalnaker also recognizes that there are two stages to the impact of an assertion.  The first is an automatic update that takes place implicitly.  It involves incorporating information into the common ground that includes things such as the fact that the speaker is speaking, a record of the salient objects that have been introduced to the context, and perhaps other forms of not-at-issue content of the utterance.  The second stage of the assertion impact involves the restriction of the context set to incorporate the at-issue content of the utterance.  But this second stage does not take place automatically.  Instead, the speaker's fellow interlocutors are given the power to either accept or reject this update before the context set is updated.  (It may be that the proposal is entered into the conversational record in some form for the purpose of anaphoric reference later on.) Thus, it is fitting to think of assertion as involving two distinct phases: an initiation, which involves the proposal of the asserted content by the speaker, and a completion, which involves either the acceptance or rejection of the asserted content by the hearer.

Another way in which the semantic level of discoruse representation is collaborative involves questions and answers.  Questions can of course be accepted or rejected, but they also *call for* a particular form of response.  That is, questions present an *issue*, which carries with it certain *fellicity contitions* that acceptable responses must meet, and the question cannot be considered closed until a response meeting those contitions is offered.  We thus have what appears to be a collaborative discourse pair: an ititiation, which is the issue proposed in the question, and a completion, which is the answer.  The initiation phase presumes the possibility of a completion, and the completion depends upon the issue proposed.  (Interestingly, this means that discourse initiations need not be immediately followed by thei completions.  A questions may not be (fully) resolved until after a number of clarificatory amendments or sub-questions are introduced and resolved.)

Discourse pairs thus exhibit a recognizable pattern. A contribution is an initiation if it presumes a completion, which is accomplished by means of exerting fellicity conditions on adequate responses.  A contribution is a completion if its content depends (in some important way) on an initiation from prior discourse.

This suggests that posit/correction should count as a discourse pair.  Also, there is an interesting analogue in the phonological syntactic realm: that of the try-marker.

A try-marker is an attempted reference within an utterance marked to indicate recognition that the heareer may not pick up on the reference, but the speaker doesn't want to derail the conversation to conclusively rectify this potential confusion. In English, the general form of try-markers is an upward intonational contour followed by brief pause. When a speaker uses a try-marker, she attempts reference without certainty that the attempt will be successful for the purpose of continuting the flow of conversation.  The general rational motivation for such a mechanism is a preference for minimal effort over security of recognition.

On the semantic side of things, a posit is an attempt to impose a restriction on the context set without certainty regarding the truth of the proposal for the purpose of advancing the flow of inquiry. 

Both try-markers and posits depend for their discursive viability on the role of  interlocutors as correctors. Speakers feel comfortable prefering speed and simplicity over accuracy because they know that a diligent interlocutor will correct them if need be.

Would be cool if there was a similar intonation pattern between them.  
--need a recognizable form for posits ( maybe statements preceeding corrections?)
--Think sentence final intonation (there are question raises, assertion flat, and posit raises)
