## 

Plurals are functions from sets (of individuals or pluralities) to
partitions over those sets. The uniformity (homogeneity) presupposition
gets cashed out as a contextually determined default (null) partition.

Compare:

Bears are dangerous. . [Grizzley]$_f$ bears are.

. . All bears are dangerous. . [Grizzley]$_f$ bears are.

The contextualism/relativism debate often revolves around the resiliance
to correction of various assertions.

. . I know $\alpha$. . What about the possibility that you are a $BIV$?
. I didn’t mean I would be able to convince a skeptic!

The debate in the literature as well as the data examined in “CIA Leaks”
suggest that there is variability in the corrective potential of certain
assertions. At least, corrections of this sort are different than flat
denials.

This resiliancy is also a defining characteristic of generics:

. . Cows give milk. . What about bulls? . I didn’t mean $all$ cows!

I have a proposal, in the spirit of relativism, that can account for the
distinctive corrective pattern for these expressions. The idea is that
the semantic values of such expressions are not sets (or properties)
within the relevant domain. Instead, the semantic values are functions
from sets (properties) to partitions (relations) thereof.

$$c \rightarrow f(s) \rightarrow R(s,s)$$

$$f(s,c) \rightarrow R(s,s)$$

In general, assertions invoke a null partition, thus presupposing
uniformity of the set with respect to the semantic predicate of the
assertion. However, contrastive topic in a response to such an assertion
indicates a denial of the proposed partitioning, without denying the
whole assertion.

Corrections form a diverse group, but one element they share is that
they seem to constitute a denial of something *smaller* than the
originally asserted content. This may be a presupposition of the
sentence or one of its contained expressions, a syntactic element of the
sentence, or even the perceived tone of the utterance. That corrections
deny ony a part of the assertion (utterance) is important because some
elements make their way into the common ground for future reference. If
they were straight denials, we would not expect an update to the common
ground.

Consider:

. . The bear is hungry. . No, it’s not.

The denial allows the presupposition of “the bear” through.

. He didn’t call the po-lis; he called the po-lis.

The denial accepts the content, but blocks a sociological implicature
associated with dialect (cadence, pronunciation, emphasis).

. . Bears are dangerous. . [Grizzley]$_f$ bears are.

The correction involves a denial, but it doesn’t halt the conversation.
Instead, it let’s something through and immediately elaborates on it.
What is it that is carried through? Perhaps, it can be cashed out in
terms of the primary QUD or the interrogative update. The idea is that
the correction makes both a negative and a positive contribution to the
discourse, and the positive contribution has to work on something that’s
already been introduced. What it works on is the set that is mentioned
by the first speaker, but it’s contribution is to invoke a different
partitioning of that set. This is what sets corrections apart from a
mere conjunction of a denial and a new contribution. The denial is
merely of the default partition; the contribution continues off of the
original assertion.

We’ll need a story of how context fixes a partition. As usual, it will
be messy. But demonstratives look to context for a salient individual,
and modals look to context for a set of propositions. I’m thinking that
disputative potential appeals to context for an assortoric function.
Denial resiliant utterances are like hedges and indirect evidentials in
that the involve a lesser commitment to the content of the utterance.
This suggests that they are mood related.

So, take the following just so story: The speaker wants to introduce a
line of inquiry and advance along that line in one move. But she uses a
correctible to allow that the positive contribution may not be accepted.
If this sort of move is mood related, then it suggests that there is a
different kind of update at play. Assertions restrict context sets,
questions partition context sets, commands rank elements within context
sets, and correctibles DO SOMETHING ELSE.

Of course, it really looks like we can just decompose a corrections into
a partition and an assertion. But the assertion part doesn’t seem full
fledged in an important sense.

The logical aparatus we bring to bear on the puzzle might just be that
of partitioning and restricting, This doesn’t mean that corrections
needen’t be viewed as sui generis contributions. Openendedness,
resiliance, lesser commitment, and not-quite assertion seems like unique
properties of this sort of contribution.

The difference in the logical aperatus could come not in the kind of
update itself, but it how the update is incorporated in a joint, dynamic
scoreboard. We have something like tentative proposals that allow for
rejection without eliminating thier viability. (There’s an analogy here
to Murray’s attempts to treat at-issue content as a proposed, as opposed
to direct, restriction of the common ground. Where she ran into trouble
was in conjoined evidential sentences. The mood and content features of
the sentences got co-mingled in an unsavory way.) This is also where the
similarity to a relativism of Egan’s sort comes in. Relativism focuses
on the fact that there are lots of ways in which our beliefs are similar
even though our contexts differ. This similarity is a matter of an
involvement with the content. Relativists build that involvement into
the content of the embedding attitude. But this gets unsavory in
contexts where we want to allow involvement to vary.

We may get some insight from seeing what type correctible sentences end
up being. If plurals are functions from sets to sets of sets, then they
are \<et,ett\> and we’re taking the default null partition to be
relative to the semantic predicate, so it can be just a regular set
\<e,t\>. So, we need a composition rule that can take these elements and
make an assertible content out of it. Or we need a pseudo-assertible
kind of content.

#### Option 1:

Subject contributes an open partition over the set denoted, null by
default.

#### Option 2:

The open partition is over the whole domain, with the subject indicating
one cell of the suggested partition.

Maybe correctibles are assertions with less force or import. As how
knowledge is one end of a scale of justified belief, full assertion is
an end where the norm is knowledge. One can employ assertive force in a
contribution without claiming knowledge if it is good enough to advance
the current conversation. Compare the use of wikipedia in common
discourse.
