### The problem of contrastive focus ###

Analyzing focus interpretation in terms of a pragmatic rule connecting focus semantic values to semantic antecedents in prior discourse is incredibly fruitful. But now consider the following example:

(@) - What did people bring to the picinic?
    - The [children]~cf~ brought [unbridled enthusiasm]~f~.

This response involves two focused elements. For both elements, it is easy enough to generate the requisite alternative sets, and alternative set generated for the second focused element (marked with a subscripted *f*), is perfectly congruent with the preceding question. But a difficulty arises when we attempt to apply the felicity condition to the element labeled with *cf* (for *contrastive focus*). Its alternative set is distinctly not congruent with the preceding question, so we would expect the entire utterance to be marked as infelicitous.

Daniel Buring (-@buering2003) has supplied us with a technique to locate the requisite antecedent.  Building on the notion of the question under discussion developed by Cragie Roberts (-@roberts1998), Buring posits the existence of a *discourse tree*, which provides structure for the inquiry being undertaken. Each question governing the inqury is a node in the tree and is associated with an array of subquestions, complete answers to which constitute partial answers to the parent question.  The idea is that the subquestions provide a _plan of inquiry_ for addressing the parent question. The objective of the inquiry is to answer the top-most question in the tree. The plan for doing so is to answer each of the subquestions in turn.

But how should we apply this porposal to the current case, where contrastive focus is present without any explicit question? We can, of course, appeal again to the ever present implicit question under discussion. All discourses, it would be maintained, whether questions have been explicitly introduced or not, are governed by a plan of inquiry, which is structured by questions, implicit if need be. Then, the explanation of the contrastive topic in (@bears) would be that the original assertion offers an answer to a parent question, and the correction that follows rejects this answer, replacing it with an answer to a subquestion.

This proposal certainly fits with the structure of the question under discussion representation of the conversational scoreboard. But we may be left a little unsatisfied with the details.  First, it seems to be straining the notion of presupposition pretty heavily. Not only is there no direct representation to stand as antecedent to the generated focus semantic value, [AS WAS POINTED OUT EARLIER] contrastive topic is quite resiliant to infellicity.  Many different potential elements could have been fellicitously focused, and it's hard to see how the conversational scoreboard could have all of these options ready to hand. The common response to this sort of worry is to appeal to accommodation. If the scoreboard does not contain the d-tree needed to provide the antecedent for the contrastive focus, then straightaway it comes about. This reliance on accommodation is not without its own set of issues, predominantly stemming from the unconstrained character of accommodation as a theoretical posit.

But what I take to be the central issue with this sort of approach to the problem of contrastive topic in corrections is a conceptual one having to do with the role of corrections in discourse evolution. The question under discussion model of contrastive topic makes the discourse contribution of contrastive topic entirely backward looking. Whatever role the focus plays is just a matter of checking prior discourse for an antecedent to the focus generated alternative set. 

