## Linguistic evidence for contribution types ##

One motivation for introducing a novel contribution type is by classifying certain linguistic particles as carriers of that type. For instance, a natural model of the semantic value of epistemic modals [@veltman1996, @fintel2010] is that they provide a test of the common ground. If the test is passed the entire common ground passes through unaltered; if the test is failed, the common ground collapses and a repair is required. But if this was all epistemic modals did, their ubiquity in discourse would be mysterious, as their function is reduced to trivial operations on the common ground.  One way of explaining the utility of epistemic modals in discourse is in terms of their unique contribution type. This project has been undertaken within the inquisitive semantics tradition, by accounting for the contribution of epistemic modals as a way of highlighting particular possible worlds within an information state [@groenendijk2014].^[This is, of course, not the only possible explanation of the unique value of epistemic modals.  One could attempt to provide epistemic modals with a more nuanced semantic content, or couch their apparent additional contribution in terms of general pragmatic principles.] *Attention shifting*, then, is a novel contribution type because it makes use of information in a unique way.  And it, too, is associated with an appropriate response. The appropriate response to such a contribution is to direct ones further contributions to this highlighted piece of the total common ground.^[Additional contribution types may include *suppositions*, which are carried by the antecedents of conditionals.]
