## J. S. Mill ## {#mill}

John Stuart Mill's [-@mill1859] defense of liberty similarly centrally relies on dispute. Even in the face of certainty regarding the answer to certain questions, dispute plays an important role. To be always ready to dispute opponents' claims keeps one's defense of their own claims fresh.

In successful inquiry, it is not enough that the participants in the inquiry come to accept truths about the world.  The process of inquiry, when faithfully undertaken serves to provide its participants with justification for coming to accept the outputs of the inquiry.  In this way, inquiry provides an operational justification.  Much like John Rawls' [-@rawls1971] account of justice, in which the principles agreed to by the members of the original position are definitionally just in virtue of thier being the outputs of a fairly undertaken decision procedure, the structure of the common ground at the end of inquiry could be justifiably incorporated into the belief state of the participants by virtue of its being the output of an honestly undertaken process of inquiry.

For Mill, it was essential to the justification of beliefs that they withstand continual attack from those who disagree with them.  That is, for an individual to justifiably maintain a particular belief, they must be capable of defending that belief against attack from potential, reasonable dissenters.  Even stronger, they must actually defend the belief against actual, reasonable dissenters.  Marc Moffett (-@moffett2007) has suggested that this criterion of individual justified belief is tantamount to what he calls the *collective criticism condition*, which demands "free and open critical discussion" of beliefs among epistemic peers who hold countervailing beliefs. We thus derive a principle of social epistemics from a principle of individual level justification of belief. 

If the process of inquiry is what provides individual level belief justification, then the process of inquiry must make room for the collective criticism condition. It is my contention that natural discourse does just this. Not only are asserters expected to be able to provide reasons for the propositions they propose, hearers are expected to challenge assertions when their content contradicts either their own expectations, or the shared conversational record. 

These commitments of cooperative exchange are realized in certain discourse mechanisms. The hearer has certain tools at her disposal for challenging assertion.  Primary among these is flat out denial, but often it is not maximally cooperative to flatly deny an assertion for this response has the effect of derailing the progress of the inquiry, and it is too sweeping in its effect.  Involve a great number of parts, any of which may be subject to criticism, but criticizing one part may leave others unscathed.  Thus, hearers also have means for correcting utterances without issues a blanket denial.

This account of justification is an internalist one.  Hearers must be aware of their commitment in securing justification for the speaker, and the speaker must be aware that the hearer is so aware in order to retain genuine warrant for her assertion. (Presumably, this mutual awareness could be iterated indefinitely.) The presence of this mutual awareness of each participant's role in generating justification suggests that not only does the hearer respond to the speaker's proposal, but also that the speaker's proposal will anticipate the hearer's response. Assertions represent, in addition to the content put forward, their anticipation of potential challenges to that content.  Call this the corrective potential of an assertion. 

The proposal here is that speaker and hearer contributions form a discourse pair, each of which both depends on and puts constraints on the other.  A consequence of this model of discourse is that one can get insight into the deep structure of an utterance by looking to the nature of its discourse pair.

A well established application of this idea can be found in the alternative semantics for focus interpretation.  It was found that focus placement in responses to questions easily predictable. And the semantic contribution of focus in an utterance matches that of the question to which the utterance is a fellicitous response.
