## Kinds of updates and functional equivalence ##

It's possible that these update types are not mutually exclusive. It's also possible that theories that differ only in notational ways may assign updates to different types. For instance, one may take an update to directly alter an element of the common ground to reflect a relation among *its* elements, in which case we would consider it to be a structuring update. Or, one could add a specification of a domain and range as a new element of the state of information, thereby providing all the tools necessary for constructing the relation among elements of another element of the state of information. In this case, the update appears to be of the dref variety. In effect, the first option replaces one set of entities with a *relation-in-extension* among the same entities, and the second option adds a *relation-in-intension* to the information state. I don't think there is reason to bicker over the details here so long as both options equally account for intuitive interpretations of the linguistic item under consideration. However, there may be empirical reasons to choose one over the other. If the update functions, for instance, by replacing an unordered set by and ordered one, then we may take certain information to be lost; namely, that the state once represented the set as unordered. But if the relation-in-intension is added to the information sate, then we have the tools to construct the relation-in-extension without directly doctoring the set to which it applies. It may be that adequte interpretation of certain extended discourses requires the presence of the original, undoctored set in addition to the relation, but I don't investigate this idea here.

Along the way, we address issues such as to what semantic type (*e*, *et*, *s*, etc.) posits belong, on what dimension (semantic, conventional implicature, presupposition) the interpretive import of posits ought to be placed, and against what domain to interpret default saturation.^[Comparison to inquisitive semantics?]
